Soon after releasing version 4, Wade Clarke and A. DiBianca stopped by with useful advice for a version 5. I was sure I'd get to it shortly. I did not. I had the momentum of three releases in three days, but I also had the exhaustion that came with it. I had new projects.

So I finally came back to it when I was exhausted with other projects. They both noted inconsistencies in play worth fixing and even a way to skip certain acts.

I didn't really bother with this until it might've been fun. I wound up tweaking many things, including my Python script that extracted game text and checked for misspellings. *Psyops, Yo* was small enough I could test every single bit of game text in zarf's REGTEST.PY files. And I did. For bigger games, I never really looked at *X THIS* or *X THAT* in detail. But here, things fell into place quickly. And along the way I wrote in the weekly ideas that dribbled in over 2025. Some were duplicates. Felt like wasted time but on the other hand it felt like something I *had* to use.

The test scripts were still small enough, I was able to tweak some big-picture things I always meant to add, and they seem easy now. That said, the <a href="https://github.com/andrewschultz/psyops-yo/blob/main/Psyops%20Yo%20Tests.i7x">"Tests" file on github</a> has CHURN, one command I'm pleased with. (See all the random text in one move.) I also created a TSH hook which provides how to organize the TEST debug command. WARPLAST warped to the last thing to examine in an object with lots of random text.

Having the time away probably gave me perspective to say "Oh, that idea fits in here," and so forth, for my weekly notes. I always worry there's too little to add or too much to organize. But this time I cleared them. One of the last I deleted was "HELF-Shelfs" paying homage to that Far Side cartoon where a castaway's steps in the island sand spell out HELF, so the rescue plane says "wait ... that's HELF not HELP" and calls off the search. It was already in as a funny guess in Shuffling Around, at the Flesh Shelf room.

I suppose I could have done this earlier, but I felt no huge urgency. I like what I did in the meantime. I had a plan to try and test all of a game's text, and I finally did so. I actually planned to release several times today, but each run-through with the game in Frotz and not using scripts, I found something. One of the final things was adjusting the mediocre/okay ending from *A "Yay",*, which was used elsewhere, to something more appropriate. Part of me felt like I shouldn't change it late or it was weird I found something that big that late. But another part realized that once I let go, I was able to relax and say "wouldn't it be funny if..." as opposed to "yuck, this stands out and I need to change it." And that works when you're a bit sick of the technical stuff. I kind of said to myself "what would I think up if I were feeling more creative/not worried it was too corny?"

I think the human mind gets a few of these each day, though of course you can overheat on it. And seeing the "A Yay" and not being fully satisfied, I think, eventually washed off on me. I still have no clue how creativity works. But I also believe putting in the work and trying to look at something from many different sides gives you that chance -- I like using the mathematical analogy of giving yourself 100 cracks at a 1% chance to get something. The numbers are fudged, but the principle is, take a step back and enjoy the what-iffing, and even if it doesn't feel like work, it IS making yourself to pay attention and make that effort, e.g. "I want to focus my effort here" instead of "I better work to fix that."