Four to five years is a long programming cycle for such a short game, but then, I did some other stuff along the way. I finally feel like *Psyops, Yo* is near the end of what it could be, which may not be much, but it always feels nice to tie stuff up.

And it's weird seeing the release dates, where I intended to put version 4 out quickly after 3, and it failed. But they all do very different things: version 2 made gameplay smoother, version 3 implemented random text with a bookshelf of sorts, and version 4 used classes in Inform to expand that the random text to several other items and fixed stuff noted by @severedhand and @dibianca. I've had times where I had the momentum to do two quick releases and said "no this is silly," promptly losing it. So I take it when I can. And here, I meant to do number 3 quickly, but I didn't. I sort of vaguely worried it might be spamming my itch contacts, and now I took a while, there's a "who really cares any more?" nagging me. But I got it done.

And strangely, one of the reasons for my progress was that my Internet service was very spotty for releases 2 and 3, and I valued my time on the Internet more, saying, okay, I'm only going to use it too push code to github, or search some Python stuff online, instead of going down a rabbit hole. Of course, lack of Internet access isn't sustainable long term, but sometimes the time is right and you just have the right motivation to do something. But it's important to ask yourself regularly, if I only had 15 minutes of Internet access, how would I use it? And can I keep myself productive with the Internet out? I did so, and well, that one weekend. Then I put things off. So I'm glad I seized the day, or weekend. At some points I even forgot to check if Internet access was back up! Then I forgot to finish the process with the Internet back up recently.

I don't know when official work on *Psyops, Yo* started, but I know I thought of the name Toronto Ron years ago, with my first two anagram games like <a href="https://andrewschultz.itch.io/shuffling-around">Shuffling Around</a> and <a href="https://andrewschultz.itch.io/a-roiling-original">A Roiling Original</a>. Toronto Ron deserved a place! And in release 4, he found it. As owner of an exclusive club you can't enter. But you get to win the game instead. It's strictly for amusement.

I consider the official work on a wordplay game started once I write a real, rigorous Python script to say, what can I do with this word-related oddity? I forget if the title came first, or an item did. I wish I'd taken better notes during the pandemic. But I think it spawned from my looking for words or phrases that could anagram themselves or had more than one group of letters. So it neighbors <a href="https://andrewschultz.itch.io/tours-roust-torus">Tours Roust Torus</a>, my third anagram game, which is also up on itch.io. The idea of having letters or words repeating, without being too repetitive, interests me. I felt it had to be rare, rare enough for a focused game but hopefully not too rare to show anything.

So what took four years? The first release should have happened in October 2020, but I forgot that EctoComp was released for the morning of October 31st, not by the end. So it waited a year, and I still procrastinated to push it through. It's funny, you only get four hours in Petite Mort, so it should not take long. But then planning the optimal ways to reach in and use a few minutes takes time itself.

Then because I entered it in Petite Mort, it had holes, and there wasn't much description to it. I think I even sent in the wrong binary build, because the Inform IDE didn't save the binary automatically but asked me where to save it, and I canceled, so that didn't work out so great. This is on me--I use an old IDE, and I'd seen the behavior before, and I didn't so a smoke test.

So I wondered if updating was really worth it, being a small game and all. But eventually in my weekly writing files, the idea started piling up. Maybe even just one a week! I noticed a word pair here or there, or I had a near miss that led me to something. Yet it seemed to fall into that not so sweet spot of having too much to take care of at once, but not enough to put out a new release. Of course, a lot of that is in my mind, and it's an excuse to procrastinate.

Just now in 2026, though, I think I used *Psyops, Yo* as an excuse to procrastinate re-releasing my three EctoComp 2025 projects. Maybe I will legitimately be able to frame it as "I am ramping up to something bigger, after losing my way at year's end." Either way, I used my general extract-from-weekly-files script (written and fine-tuned between 2021 and 2025) to pull *Psyops, Yo* related notes into its main notes file. I saw a lot I could work with and that I enjoyed.

There were a lot of word pairs that were scraps and didn't seem to fit in the game, but I'd been there before, and I decided to put them into a bookshelf, because of course book titles can have weird names. It's not the first time I've done this sort of thing, but it was satisfying, and there aren't too many of them. So perhaps part of the delay was just saying, why bother to overwork myself with refurbishing a small game until the tools are in place? And, of course, there were proper names. And they dribbled in over 2025 to giveme a few good random laughs, both in the narrative flow and random texts elsewhere

So I think it's nice window dressing for what's not a big game. After all, *Psyops, Yo* can be solved in nine moves with four point-scoring commands. The best ending, six total points, requires eleven total moves. So I wanted to add new stuff in.

And as an added bonus, because it wasn't very big, I really had fun going back through end trying stuff and making sure nothing broke, or certain things were implemented, and I didn't get tired of it or exhausted with the possibilities as I did with bigger games. The test scripts were small enough, I was able to tweak some big-picture things I always meant to add, and they seem easy now. That said, the <a href="https://github.com/andrewschultz/psyops-yo/blob/main/Psyops%20Yo%20Tests.i7x">"Tests" file on github</a> has CHURN, one command I'm pleased with. I also created a TSH hook which provides how to organize the TEST debug command.

I realized how much my procedure had grown since 2020, when it really wasn't all that bad, because I had everything there just ready to go, and stuff that I remember dreading then has become more streamlined now. I didn't have stuff like automating creating header files, or being able to move certain types of code from main files into more organized header files. All this seems trivial, but it adds up. I also, because the game was not very big, was able to look at a lot of the stubs and utilities I'd written, and focus on how to make them more usable, because I didn't really need to do any huge technical gymnastics. It was a nice break from testing the game, when I needed it.

Yes, a lot of the changes are things that really should be in the first release of any decent game, or at least they would be if I had more than four hours to write it, thus violating the premise of the competition. I remember feeling bad off and on that I never really got back to it, but as it turns out, a weekend of fixing bugs and adding features, trivial as they were, seemed like just about the right time to take care of everything. I really do enjoy EctoComp Petite Mort saying "four hours. Focus on what is most important." It helps, even if the initial product is off.

The full changes are on the GitHub page. Since 2021, I've become a lot more comfortable using classes in Inform or Python. And I recalled certain bits of code where I had to update things in several places, which was okay, and I didn't want to get too greedy/lazy, but then I did the mental work of making something that worked more general.

As for my notes file? It was maybe 300 lines, a lot of which was whitespace e.g.

**NOTES FROM 20250101.txt
One single word pair
(line break after)

A big chunk was actually notes for <a href="https://andrewschultz.itch.io/tours-roust-torus">Tours Roust Torus</a> which all got used, including a text map. So I went from being intimidated to wishing there was more, especially when I saw duplicates. And of course there were duplicates, with a limited pool of phrases and ideas written a year apart.

This may seem kind of bad, but on the other hand it's a reminder that I do have those ideas that are persistent, and the good ones come back and say "Use me already." Finally I manage to. The duplicated ones generally are a small cut above, or they lead to something neat I can't believe I missed. And speaking of duplication: I see how slogs-log could duplicate logs/slogs in an anagram game, and I passed on scans/can due to a bonus point in A Roiling Original. And the NOT-SNOTS list of barred people echoes naughty-say-snotty which is an idea for a Pig Latin based game I have ideas for. (There may be more direct ones, especially in the random text.) But I guess there has to be some overlap, and doing nothing, while an effective way to avoid that fear, makes nobody happy.

I cleared everything from the random notes. One of the last I deleted was "HELF-Shelfs" paying homage to that Far Side cartoon where a castaway's steps in the island sand spell out HELF, so the rescue plane says "wait ... that's HELF not HELP" and calls off the search. It was already in as a funny guess in Shuffling, around the Flesh Shelf room.

There are only so many possibilities, which is nice, as *Psyops, Yo* thus feels like a project I can really close the door on, and that's rare. Most of the time when I move on, I'm regretful that I couldn't fill in those last details, because there's a neat new project ahead, but I guess I did enough. Not here.

I look forward to moving on to those bigger projects I mentioned above.
